The 9 Healthiest Types of Juice
Though juice is enjoyed around the world, it’s a controversial beverage.

When it comes to its healthiness, many people are divided. Some argue that it’s too high in sugar, while others champion its high nutrient content.

This article reviews the 9 healthiest juices and discusses whether juice is a healthy choice in general.


1. Cranberry
Tart and bright red, cranberry juice offers many benefits.

A single cup (240 ml) of cranberry juice provides (1Trusted Source):

Calories: 116
Protein: 1 gram
Carbs: 31 grams
Fiber: 0.25 grams
Sugar: 31 grams
Potassium: 4% of the Daily Value (DV)
Vitamin C: 26% of the DV
Vitamin E: 20% of the DV
Vitamin K: 11% of the DV
Cranberry juice is known for its ability to protect against urinary tract infections (UTIs). Though research on this effect has been mixed, a recent review found that drinking cranberry juice lowered the risk of getting a UTI by 32.5% (2Trusted Source).

This juice is also high in antioxidants, including anthocyanins, flavonols, procyanidins, and vitamins C and E, which may help protect your cells from damage caused by free radicals (3Trusted Source, 4).

2. Tomato
Tomato juice is not only a key ingredient in Bloody Marys but also enjoyed on its own as a delicious and healthy drink.

While many people consider the tomato to be a vegetable due to its culinary uses, it’s biologically a fruit. Still, many companies classify tomato juice as a vegetable juice due to its flavor and low sugar content.

One cup (240 ml) of tomato juice provides (5Trusted Source):

Calories: 41
Protein: 2 grams
Carbs: 9 grams
Fiber: 1 gram
Sugar: 6 grams
Folate: 12% of the DV
Potassium: 11% of the DV
Vitamin A: 6% of the DV
Vitamin C: 189% of the DV
Vitamin E: 5% of the DV
Vitamin K: 5% of the DV
Tomato juice is particularly high in vitamin C, a potent antioxidant that supports iron absorption and promotes skin and immune health (6Trusted Source, 7Trusted Source, 8Trusted Source).

It’s also a good source of lycopene, a carotenoid and antioxidant that gives tomatoes their red color. In fact, 80% of dietary lycopene is reported to come from tomato juice, spaghetti sauce, or pizza sauce (9Trusted Source).

Lycopene may lower your risk of heart disease and stroke. For example, one review linked increased intake of lycopene to a 13% lower risk of heart disease (10Trusted Source).

However, tomato juice can be very high in salt, a mineral that can increase blood pressure when consumed in excess. Considering that most people consume too much salt, try to select low-sodium options when possible (11Trusted Source).

3. Beet
Beet juice has gained popularity in recent years due to its associated health benefits.

This colorful juice is made by blending beets and water.

One cup (240 ml) of beet juice provides (12Trusted Source):

Calories: 70
Protein: 1 gram
Carbs: 18 grams
Fiber: 1 gram
Sugar: 13 grams
It’s relatively low in sugar, as most vegetables are naturally lower in sugar than fruits (13Trusted Source).

What’s more, beets are a great source of betalains, which are pigments that give the vegetable its deep-red color. They act as potent antioxidants, potentially lowering your risk of heart disease, inflammation, and certain types of cancer (14Trusted Source, 15).

Beet juice is also high in inorganic nitrates, which have been shown to increase athletic performance and decrease blood pressure and heart disease risk (16Trusted Source, 17Trusted Source, 18Trusted Source).

Still, keep in mind that the inorganic nitrate content of beet juice depends on the variety and growing conditions of the vegetable, as well as the processing method (17Trusted Source).

Since the nitrate content is not listed on most labels, it’s difficult to know to what extent drinking beet juice will provide nitrate-related benefits (17Trusted Source).

4. Apple
Apple juice is one of the most popular types of juice (19).

There are two main types — cloudy and clear. Cloudy apple juice contains pulp, while clear apple juice has had the pulp removed (20Trusted Source).

A 1-cup (240-ml) serving of apple juice provides (21Trusted Source):

Calories: 114
Protein: less than 1 gram
Carbs: 28 grams
Fiber: 0.5 grams
Sugar: 24 grams
Potassium: 5% of the DV
Vitamin C: 3% of the DV
Apple juice is a moderate source of potassium, a mineral that acts as an electrolyte and is important for nerve signaling and heart health (22Trusted Source, 23Trusted Source, 24).

Although it’s naturally low in vitamin C, many commercial varieties are enriched with vitamin C, providing up to 106% of the DV per cup (240 ml) (25Trusted Source).

Furthermore, it’s high in antioxidant compounds like flavonoids and chlorogenic acid, which help neutralize cell-damaging free radicals (26Trusted Source, 27Trusted Source, 28Trusted Source).

Among the different types, cloudy apple juice is the highest in antioxidants. In one study, it was found to have 2–5 times the antioxidant content of clear apple juice (20Trusted Source).

5. Prune
Prunes are dried plums. They’re often enjoyed as a snack, but prune juice is another popular option.

One cup (240 ml) of prune juice provides (29Trusted Source):

Calories: 182
Protein: 1.5 grams
Carbs: 45 grams
Fiber: 2.5 grams
Sugar: 42 grams
Iron: 17% of the DV
Magnesium: 9% of the DV
Manganese: 17% of the DV
Potassium: 15% of the DV
Vitamin B2: 14% of the DV
Vitamin B3: 13% of the DV
Vitamin B6: 33% of the DV
Vitamin C: 12% of the DV
Vitamin K: 8% of the DV
Prune juice is high in B vitamins, which play a role in metabolism, DNA and red blood cell production, and skin and eye health (30Trusted Source, 31Trusted Source, 32Trusted Source).

Furthermore, it’s widely used as a remedy for constipation, especially in older populations. Its fiber content appears to help soften stool and acts as a mild laxative (33Trusted Source, 34Trusted Source).

It’s also a good source of antioxidants, such as vitamin C and phenolic compounds (34Trusted Source).

Though prune juice is a natural source of sugar, it’s best to limit your intake to a small glass per day or dilute it with water.

6. Pomegranate
Pomegranate juice has gained popularity in recent years due to its nutritional benefits. Plus, it adds a vibrant splash of color to your day.

A 1-cup (240-ml) serving of pomegranate juice provides (35Trusted Source):

Calories: 134
Protein: less than 1 gram
Carbs: 33 grams
Fiber: 0.25 grams
Sugar: 32 grams
Potassium: 11% of the DV
Vitamin C: less than 1% of the DV
Vitamin K: 22% of the DV
Pomegranate juice is rich in vitamin K, which aids blood clotting, heart health, and bone development (36Trusted Source).

It’s also high in the antioxidant anthocyanin, which gives pomegranates their characteristic dark-red color (37Trusted Source).

Finally, many varieties contain added vitamin C, helping you reach up to 27% of the DV (38Trusted Source).

7. Acai berry
Acai berries are small, circular berries that come from the acai palm tree.

Their delicious juice has an enticing, deep-purple color.

A single cup (240 ml) of acai berry juice provides (39Trusted Source):

Calories: 91
Protein: 1 gram
Carbs: 13 grams
Fiber: 2 grams
Sugar: 9 grams
Given that it has only gained popularity recently, nutritional data for this juice is limited. Still, the fruit’s antioxidant content has been widely studied.

Acai juice is rich in various antioxidants, particularly flavonoids, ferulic acid, and chlorogenic acid. A diet rich in these compounds has been associated with a lower risk of heart disease and mental decline (40, 41Trusted Source, 42Trusted Source).

In fact, acai berries contain significantly more antioxidants than blueberries, which are well known for their disease-fighting compounds (43Trusted Source).

Finally, a study in 14 participants with osteoarthritis found that drinking an acai-based fruit juice for 12 weeks significantly lowered perceived pain. However, larger studies are needed to better understand this relationship (44Trusted Source).

8. Orange
Orange juice is a classic breakfast staple around the world and well known for its nutritional properties.

A single cup (240 ml) of orange juice provides (45Trusted Source):

Calories: 112
Protein: 2 grams
Carbs: 26 grams
Fiber: 0.5 grams
Sugar: 21 grams
Folate: 19% of the DV
Potassium: 11% of the DV
Vitamin C: 138% of the DV
Orange juice is a significant source of vitamin C, an antioxidant that is essential for skin health and iron absorption (6Trusted Source, 8Trusted Source).

It’s also high in phenolic compounds, such as cinnamic, ferulic, and chlorogenic acids. These antioxidant compounds help fight free radicals, which can damage cells and lead to disease (46).

A study in 30 people found that drinking orange juice after a high-fat, carb-rich meal led to significantly lower inflammation levels, compared with drinking water or glucose-water. The researchers attributed this to the antioxidants in orange juice (47Trusted Source).

You can purchase orange juice with or without the pulp. The pulp adds a bit of fiber, though not a significant amount.

Plus, many orange juice varieties have added calcium to support bone health.

9. Grapefruit
Grapefruit juice is a tart drink that many people enjoy.

One cup (240 ml) of grapefruit juice provides (48Trusted Source):

Calories: 95
Protein: 1.5 grams
Carbs: 19 grams
Fiber: 1.5 grams
Sugar: 20 grams
Folate: 9% of the DV
Potassium: 8% of the DV
Vitamin C: 96% of the DV
Vitamin E: 4% of the DV
Grapefruit juice is rich in disease-fighting antioxidants like vitamin C and a compound known as naringin (49, 50Trusted Source).

However, processing the fruit decreases its content of certain antioxidants. For example, whole grapefruit is rich in beta carotene and lycopene, but grapefruit juice lacks these nutrients (48Trusted Source, 51Trusted Source).

It’s important to know that grapefruit and its juice interact with over 85 medications, including blood thinners, antidepressants, and cholesterol and blood pressure medications (52Trusted Source).

This is due to compounds in grapefruit known as furanocoumarins, which interact with your liver’s ability to process medications. Therefore, it’s crucial to speak with a healthcare professional before eating grapefruit and its derivatives (52Trusted Source).

